# Marketing

## Analytics

After collecting the information from Google Analytics, gives the analytics overview a first insight of your website’s statistics. It is important to see this numbers in the right perspective by looking at the date range. If necessary, change the date range by choosing the start- and end date en clicking the *Change period* button.

Under the date range are different numbers or *metrics* displayed. The grey percentages between brackets allows you to compare the results with the previous period. The metrics could be used for the website’s KPI’s (or just to brag about by your boss or friends).

* *Pageviews* is the amount of pages that are viewed on your website. So if a visitor goes to three pages, this numbers will increase by three, even if that was two times the same page. This metric can be useful to attract advertisers;
* *Pages per visit* is a simple fraction: Pageviews / Visitors;
* New visits percentage is the amount of visitors that comes for the first time on your website;
* *Visitors* is the unique amount of visitors that visited your website;
* *Average time on site* is good representation to know if your visitors liked your website;
* *Bounce rate* is the amount of visitors that left your website without visiting another page.

The *Recent visits timeline* shows you the amount of visitors and pageviews in the perspective of time. The *Page per traffic source diagram* let’s quickly see how your visitors found your website.

Under the diagrams there are two lists of *dimensions*, they are filled with links where most of your visitors came from (*Top referrers*) and the most used keywords to visit your website (*Top keywords*).

The subpages of this module focuses on some import aspects of your website and show the related metrics and dimensions. The content page should show the most important pages from your website, because it show the most used pages to enter, exit and land. Such a landing page is used as response on a search engine optimized search result or an advertisement, you can specify these on the *Landing pages* page.