# Mailmotor

This part allows you to easily send newsletters to your customers. Behind the scenes the mailmotor currently uses [Campaign Monitor](http://www.campaignmonitor.com/) to send the campaigns. We are working hard to integrate [Mailchimp](http://www.mailchimp.com) as an alternative for CampaignMonitor and in the future every external mail-service could be hooked.

## Add e-mail addresses

Start by adding the e-mail addresses you already have to the mailmotor. You can create a few groups and connect the addresses to these groups. Click in the left menu on Groups.

Once the groups are created you could import e-mail addresses and link them to the right group. Only add addresses from people who gave you permission to send them newsletters. Nobody likes spam.

After you inserted the e-mail addresses we can start creating a newsletter.

## Create newsletter

In the overview of mailing, click on the *Create mailing* button. On step 1 fill in all necessary information. Preferably use a consistent name, for example for a monthly newsletter "January - Winter Sales". Also, using an existing reply address provides great direct support to your receivers. Make sure you select only the groups that are related to the subject of the newsletter.

On step 2 you can select the preferred layout or template.

Step 3 allows your build and write your newsletter. First of all fill in the subject, this is the actual subject the recipients will see in their mailbox.

Now you've configured the recipients, the language, the subject and all other basic information, we can start building the e-mail itself.

## Build newsletter

There are two types of content to fill in when sending an e-mail. First of all the designed html e-mail that is displayed by all modern email clients. Otherwise you have the plain text version that is displayed in the rare case that html is not supported.

When you don't know what you're going to write it may be easier to start writing the plain text version first. In that way you can focus on your text instead of simultaneously editing the layout.

Designing the email is just like editing text on your website. Note that you can also use the Content Templates that are created for you.

When you finished building your email, we can test and send the campaign.

## Test and send

The preview field allows you to look over the content and layout of your email. Still, we advice you to send a test email and check the email on different devices and software.

Because the unsubscribe link is not active yet it will not work in the preview. The link will become active after sending the newsletter.